viil INTRODUCTION. .

his exile. The principal works written during his hanish-
ment were the Tristia, consisting of five books, and the
Eputolae ex Ponto, of four. Both are elegiae poems and
either tell of his sorrowful condition, or contain prayers
ior his deliverance. His Autohiography is the tenth elegy
of the fourth book of the Trutio.

The Metamorphoses, written in the dactylic, or heroic,
verse and almost an heroic poem in matter as well as in
form, comprising about twelve thousand lines in fifteen
books, is his most extensive and most important work.
It is the great storehouse in the Latin language of Greek
myth and legend. The ancientS‚ intimate with nature and
wondering at her mysteries, often felt that man or god
was concealed beneath her visible appearance. Ovid
gathers together the marvelous stories ol the changes of
man or god to other forms and, combining with them the
accounts of natural phenomena and poetic legend, forms
one continuous song from the creation of the world to the
change of Julius Caesar to a star. The stories are joined
together with great skill, for though the poet apparently
follows an order of time, yet a suggestion ot name, or
character, or change easily and naturally leads him to
another myth. This will be clearly shown by an analysis
of the first and second books.

The first hook comprises the story of the change from
chaos to an orderly world and the formation of man; the
four ages of deterioration3 the wickedness of man, and
especially of Lycaon, who was changed to a woli3 the l
destruction of mankind by the flood; the saving ot Deuca-
lion and Pyrrha, hy whom the race was restored from the

 

